in the autumn of 2002 a ruthless killer
stoked the suburbs of Washington DC he
only needed a split second in he could
take them out people were murdered at
random white people black people young
Oh children and then the killer vanished
without a trace how do you find a ghost
Millions lived in fear I felt like the
water was over my head
the snipers high-powered rifle sent
shockwaves across the country people
like this exist in our world one of the
largest manhunts in American history
spread from coast to coast
there were many false leads but
eventually the murderer became careless
and the police were able to apprehend a
pair of deranged killers
Montgomery County lies just north of
Washington DC in the state of Maryland
the capital of the United States has had
a reputation for violent crime but its
suburbs are affluent calm safe places to
raise kids in 2002 the tranquility of
the suburbs was shattered by the blast
of a sniper's gun it all began on
October the 2nd at the Glenmont shopping
center
James Martin was picking up some
groceries after work
before heading home to his wife and 11
year old son out of nowhere there was
the sound of a gunshot a shopper in the
carpark heard an unsettling groan she
looked up and saw James collapse on the
ground the frightened caller was hiding
behind her car clutching her
five-year-old child is it bleeding yeah
where's he bleeding from I don't know
I'm like half a mile away on them this
is inside no it's outside in a parking
lot
oh there's a police officer here now one
of the first persons there was a police
officer who heard the shot James was
unconscious and bleeding heavily from
his chest he was trying to lend medical
attention to the victim but he was also
keeping his eyes out looking for suspect
information the victim died in minutes a
detective at the scene phoned Assistant
Chief of Police Deirdre Walker he
explained the circumstances of James
Martin's shooting which were very deeply
troubling obviously a small entrance
wound and a large exit wound indicated
that he had been killed by a shot from a
high-powered rifle I start running
through my head the possible causes of
something like this because Montgomery
County we just don't have drive-by
shootings involved in high-powered
weapons I remember hanging up the phone
and just having this feeling of
wondering when the other shoe was going
to drop
police searched the area for bullet
casings but found none they checked the
carpark for evidence but found nothing
as night fell
police were left with no clues only
questions who would want to kill James
Martin and why a terrifying answer began
to form as the violence continued at
about 7:40 the next morning it was
earlier in the morning and sunny
Buchanan was cutting lawn at first
neighbors thought Sony's lawnmower had
malfunctioned and injured him call first
went out it went out as a medical
emergency what's going on there that guy
lawn mower did not man and chopped him
up he's bleeding real bad he's down and
out but when paramedics arrived it was
clear that this was no accident sunny
was rushed to a hospital
by then his heart had stopped and was
completely drained of blood a doctor
said he bled more than anyone he had
ever seen
serene Buchanan was the son of a former
Montgomery County police officer so it
kind of hit home
sunny Buchanan's death was only the
beginning of the bloodiest morning in
the Montgomery County Police
Department's history at 8:07 a.m. a taxi
pulled into a petrol station on
Connecticut Avenue about eight
kilometres away
Caroline AMRO was keeping an eye on her
toddler as she filled her minivan
suddenly she heard the report of a gun
she was shocked to see a huge smear of
blood across the side of her vehicle and
then the site she would never forget the
taxi driver was staggering to water with
a gunshot wound in his chest premkumar
while a car fell in front of her two
brutal murders had been committed in 31
minutes and the day's violence hadn't
ended around breakfast time on October
the 3rd 2002 two men were shot dead in
the normally peaceful suburbs just north
of Washington DC each of them had been
hit by a single bullet from a
high-powered rifle
a few minutes later the killer struck
again Sahra Ramos had been waiting for a
ride outside a senior housing complex
called Leisure World she had moved to
the u.s. from El Salvador in Central
America
there she had been a law student but in
the state she made ends meet by cleaning
houses yes I need a hamburger please
eyewitness accounts only added to the
confusion hey girl get out of the shell
she just shot herself oh we got a
possible 10 56 Alicia would please
advise
it was the third brutal murder in less
than an hour it came out as a possible
suicide and that I knew instantly it
wasn't I don't be a weapon you don't
clear out honey
no this time police found the bullet
that had shattered saara skull
the 223 caliber bullet entered her
forehead exited through her neck went
through a window and landed on the floor
of the restaurant behind her chaotic
radio traffic filled the airwaves as
emergency response teams raced to keep
up with the murders but the killer was
relentless his next victim was Lori Luis
Rivera who was cleaning her car at a
petrol station the quiet suburbs had
never seen anything like this
we ran the shooting about every half now
all five killings were clustered in 25
square kilometers of Montgomery County
the annual homicide rate had just shot
up 30 percent there had been another
incident about an hour before James
Martin was shot while shopping less than
five kilometers from the supermarket
employees at a craft store heard a loud
crack and found a bullet hole in their
window the round just went high it
actually entered at about the six-foot
level in the window they've recovered
some fragments from artificial flower in
the store so far the police have found
no connection between any of the victims
different ages different sexes different
races of the victims that was the most
troubling part and there had been no
secondary crimes like robbery at any of
the shootings we knew we had to counter
this threat and we knew we had to do it
immediately a sniper or possibly a team
of snipers was stalking the people of
Montgomery County so right away we had
to put all our assets out we had to put
them out immediately and we had to go
with a quick plan SWAT teams were
deployed throughout the area we were
going to engage this guy that he was
pulling us along we were going to end up
in our confrontation with him well
police marksmen waited for a possible
shootout other snipers helped with the
investigation we sent out our trained
snipers to go to each location to come
back
report what they believe happened in
these locations the locations were all
in public places undercover cops flooded
similar areas hoping to catch the killer
in the act at each crime scene the
detectives face the same nagging
question where could someone with a
rifle have hidden there is no far as the
woodland there is no cover and for no
lookouts to come out we realized that
maybe a vehicle could be involved the
one and only lead police had so far seem
to support this theory we had a witness
who had seen a white panel truck in the
area where the victim up at Leisure
World had been apparently this witness
had heard the shot turned around and saw
that white panel truck suddenly it
seemed as if white vans and panel trucks
were everywhere police knew they would
find more clues in the bodies of the
victims there were now five corpses at
the coroner's office the autopsies could
provide crucial evidence
get the lookout if there was any
elevation which would lead us to believe
they're taking these shots from rooftops
and we also needed to know what type of
damage occurred these victims on that
day but even before the forensics could
be completed another panicked call came
in
that night
Pascal charlo an elderly Haitian
immigrant was gunned down while crossing
the road he was just over the Montgomery
County border in Washington DC I went to
the scene on that it kind of led me to
believe like maybe they saw that this
individual was in Washington DC and they
wanted to extend the killing field to
another location within a metropolitan
area on October the 4th 2002 Washington
DC area residents awoke to a new reality
I guess going outside you're much more
aware of what's going on around you the
fear was palpable
there was just this sense of of
foreboding as people went about doing
their work six innocent people had been
gunned down in less than 48 hours police
had no suspects no motive and very few
leads
now everyone felt like a target when
people went to put gas in their car they
would bob and weave people walk down the
street they wouldn't walk in a straight
line Montgomery County Police Chief
Charles moose selected his most
experienced detective to lead the
investigation
Barney Forsyth the chief of course asked
me says what's the link and I said chief
at this point we don't see a Lincoln so
that's the commonality is that there is
no link and of course that's one of the
most difficult type of cases to deal
with chief moose made an early decision
to deal with the crisis by presenting as
much information as possible to the
public there's still all appear to be
random victims don't appear to be
anyone's enemy don't appear to be
involved in anything coordinated just
simply random targets schools went into
lockdown with armed guards out front
helicopters were everywhere meanwhile
the autopsy results showed a consistent
pattern analysis of the bullets
indicated that they came from a
long-range rifle possibly a Bushmaster
these rifles that are military rifles
they're built to kill they're not built
just to hurt somebody there bill
to kill them it goes in small and then
it gets wider as it goes through so what
you end up with is that all those organs
they're in that range of that cone get
injured whether they get hit directly by
the bullet or not the Federal Bureau of
Alcohol Tobacco and Firearms is the main
national agency that deals with gun
related crime in the United States its
ballistics lab ran a trajectory analysis
we looked at the different rounds the
way the round hit the victim and that
helped us figure out where the shot may
have been taken from the shots were not
coming from rooftops somehow the killer
was finding a way to hide in public
places investigators began to believe
that the sniper was shooting from a
vehicle which led to a theory that a
pair of shooters might be involved for
the purposes of shooting you want to
have room available so you can have some
mobility and that means when you're
behind the wheel you don't have that
kind of mobility the idea that the armed
sniper was hiding in a vehicle spread
fear like wildfire Washington area
residents were already on edge it was
just a year since the 9/11 attacks and
they'd also been an anthrax scare during
which five people had lost their lives
and 17 had been infected now they faced
the possibility that a team of
terrorists was hunting them down the
Washington Post on the front page says
snipers and al Qaeda
those questions were being publicly
asked on the afternoon of October the
4th the sniper changed tactics he moved
south of Washington emergency we've had
a lady shot in our parking lot this is
Michaels in Fredericksburg Caroline
see.well was gunned down in Virginia as
she loaded craft supplies into her
minivan away from the window I'm sorry
where's the person at she's laying in
the parking lot sir while lying on the
pavement caroline prayed that she could
live her two children so delicate honey
she's laying on the ground between our
story Michael she is moving her arm is a
lady standing over there the lady
standing with her she would become the
first survivor of the snipers long-range
bullets this was the second shooting
incident at a branch of the craft store
investigators immediately seized on a
link that could lead to the killer so we
looked at disgruntled employees people
that maybe had been terminated some
connection between the Michaels and
Maryland and the Michaels and
Fredericksburg of course nothing was
really developed there was nothing there
there was so little
in fact at every crime scene after each
killing the gunman vanished into thin
air detectives were mystified we had no
physical description we're no good
eyewitnesses how do you draw up a plan
to find a ghost in a desperate move
police chief moose asked the public for
help we're still convinced that people
have seen something we want to talk to
them we want to follow up a tip line
was immediately overwhelmed by callers
who were sure they knew the sniper we
had over 100,000 tips come in to the tip
line which is
detectives began working around the
clock to follow every worthwhile lead
meanwhile assistant chief Drew Tracey
scrutinized the snipers every move in
search of a pattern they were close to
major roadways we realized they were
strip malls and we realized that certain
stores would consistent at these places
we also realized that they knew the
traffic patterns in the area Montgomery
County rather than get stuck in heavy
southbound traffic the killer or killers
traveled north after a morning shooting
they went to the path of least
resistance based on those movements
police devised a scheme to trap the
sniper it was called the concentric
circle plan an immediate response team
will be ready to deploy within one
minute of an emergency call if we got
the information within a minute the most
they could of God was a half mile to a
mile whether it was on foot or in a
vehicle police teams would then create a
trap consisting of a series of widening
circles around the area and our goal was
to be on scene within two to three
minutes immediately after receiving
information and basically we try to
roadblock every one of these locations
with a uniform presence we would flood
internally with plainclothes operatives
roadblocks began to spring out
everywhere we needed to lock them into a
certain location
police searched white vans and every
other suspicious vehicle
one of the biggest manhunts in US
history was underway and yet the sniper
seemed to stay one step ahead slipping
away after every shooting we would get
ourselves just about where we thought we
had things under control when something
would happen in another jurisdiction the
high kill rate suggested a particular
kind of suspect we were dealing with a
trained individual hunters have this
expertise military has this expertise
trained law enforcement would have this
expertise based on the tight cluster of
shootings on the first two days police
had been looking for suspects in that
part of Montgomery County but the
Caroline seaworld case in Fredericksburg
Virginia had expanded the attack zone
tenfold the killer could be anywhere and
as the weekend approached an entire
region held its breath what would be
next the killer might not be a local
resident as they had first suspected the
safety of school children was a
particular concern I had three young
children I ran them through parking lots
I made them go down on the floorboard of
the car when I got gas throughout the
weekend school and police officials
debated whether or not school should
close it was decided that schools would
remain open but the pupils would stay
indoors I had my kids telling me mom you
have to go to work you have to go to
work till you catch them we need to go
back out for recess so you know it's a
different perspective but it was all
that you could think about
so far none of the shootings had
happened near schools but that was about
to change
13-year old Aaron Brown had been kicked
off his school bus the week before he
gotten in trouble for eating candy on
the bus and it an't had to take him to
school
Aaron's aren't dropped him off at school
an hour early because she had to get to
work
news of the sniper shooting was
constantly on the radio no incidents no
activities at the school very safe day
for young people she turns around and
there he is lie on the ground bleeding
I ran Brown was was really losing
consciousness in the car his aunt was a
nurse she was trained and she called the
hospital ahead of time and she was
racing through traffic and she kept
saying to him hang in there hang in
there I love you when I first saw iron
he was trying to die and I wasn't sure
where we whether we're gonna be able to
turn that around or not
this is our home this is our community
we took an oath to protect and serve and
these guys come in and make a mockery
you see the looks of people out here
it's just this just uncontrolled feel
right now once that child had been shot
in our neighboring County of Prince
George's it was like things had
escalated and as bad as they were and we
didn't think they could get much worse
they did get worse
we truthfully are a bit nervous about
just standing still like now I'm
standing here with you and you know I'm
kind of looking around because I'm
thinking really should I stand here I
mean I've got a car behind me and the
building over behind you and so there is
some some protection if you will but
again you don't know nobody was safe and
I think people had a pretty good grasp
of that I mean you guys feel safe right
but some ideas yet you gotta give us a
gospel basket it's just unbelievable and
if there's no sense you can put to this
I mean it's just a random act of
violence and the most serene
neighborhood you can possibly have we
were pressed more and more in fact my
own life started to not believe me
saying you know our kids safe and I
couldn't answer that because I didn't
know ever since anything started I
haven't been allowed to go anywhere I've
been in my house you cancel the game
wait a second this is a grown-up
softball league you're adults
hmm they've cancelled that too why
for the safety of us we talked about
wherever you are whatever you doing when
you
coming to school coming off the bus and
look around look around and I've been
doing that at service stations at all
times
everywhere I go parents felt like their
children weren't safe and they weren't
no one knew who would be shot next the
general took the bus a the right in
front of the door
but since the snipers are no Asuna I
have to take them too much
give away
education just because of this anyway we
all need fresh air and the shades are
down and let's go to my friend's house
but really I'm a lot outside anymore
hopefully this stops this craziness
stops today knowing the full effect of
these events on the community he'd vowed
to protect the pressure began to mount
for chief moose stepping over the line
shooting a kid I guess it's getting to
be really really personal now many was
startled to see the police chief cry but
those close to the investigation
understood the police felt as though
they were failing the community as they
were unable to stop this elusive and
ruthless killer
during five days in October 2002 there
had been seven shooting incidents in the
Washington DC area they had all involved
a single round from a high-powered rifle
the local police force seemed unable to
put a stop to the shooting spree however
the FBI brought in greater resources to
search for the serial killer a two
hundred thousand dollar reward was
offered for information leading to an
arrest
back at the scene of schoolboy iron
Browns shooting investigators undertook
a forensic walk stepping slowly
shoulder-to-shoulder through the area
and two of them discovered what they
thought looked like a flattened out area
and the shrubs where maybe somebody had
been laying and they pursued that area
much more intensely and with a metal
rake found the shell casing
they also found a pen barrel with the
ink cartridge removed it was sent to a
forensic lab to check it for DNA but the
biggest find of the day was a mysterious
tarot card and it said for you mr.
police code call me God do not release
to the press so they were using a code
call me God it was almost like a calling
card saying that it's us again and we
did it at that point in time they did
not ask for anything and that's a scary
situation if the suspects made it very
clear that they did not want the media
notified with regard to this the task
force wanted to honor the killer's
request in order to establish
communication but the media were
everywhere no secret was safe police
were determined to keep the tarot card
evidence away from the press the next
day the tarot card information was
leaked and it pretty much made the front
Washington Post this is the kind of
reporting that while I understand
wanting to get a big story can be very
devastating to a case while the
investigation seemed stalled there was a
spot of good news we have been taking
care of a young man
Iren brown the 13 year old shot at
school that morning was going to live
shell casings from his shooting strongly
suggested that a Bushmaster rifle had
been used a weapon that could be lethal
in the hands of somebody with little
training I talked about that you don't
have to be having military training or
being expert marksman with this gun the
investigators had to be careful about
information released to the media
at one stage Mike Bouchard had noted
that all the victims had been shot in
the torso
after him Dean Myers was a civil
engineer who had been decorated for
service in Vietnam he was on his way
from Virginia to Maryland he was leading
work and he just stopped to get gas
because he had a long ride home back to
Gaithersburg and he got out of the car
and he's pumping gas a 223 caliber
bullet ripped through his skull it was
October the 9th do you get a bullet
wound like that to the head it doesn't
matter what you do you're dead there's
nothing we can do two days later
Ken Bridges was killed also at a petrol
station in Virginia on October the 14th
the sniper struck again in Virginia
Ted and Linda Franklin had just bought
some shelves and were loading them into
their vehicle when Ted moved towards the
front of the vehicle to adjust a seat
Linda walked to the rear she was
standing still when the fatal bullet hit
it was another shot to the head the
right side of Linda Franklin's head was
completely blown off
she was the 11th victim of the DC sniper
and we felt with each new one that we
weren't being successful at doing our
job and protecting this community but at
this shooting a witness came forward now
that was the first good information we
had of a possible suspect as well as a
good descriptor of a vehicle Matthew
Dowd II said he was walking out of the
hardware store when he saw the killer a
Mid Eastern style male complected
crouching down taking a shot he
described a white or cream colored van
with a burnt-out rear light an alert
went out to the public we do want people
to continue to watch for things that are
out of place
strange behavior report that please to
say that people continue to call our
tipline
there are more bad guys than there are
cops but there aren't more bad guys than
our good guys so when you put the good
guys out there and you ask them to help
you with a task it's a force multiplier
and that's what we were counting on in
this case two days later a detective was
reviewing the surveillance tapes from
the hardware store at 9:21 p.m. dowdy
appeared on the install security video
tape three minutes after the shooting
when they realized that this was a a
false lookout and that a false suspect
information the eyewitness turned out to
be a hoax just someone looking for media
attention two weeks after the shooting
began the investigators were back to
square one all the possible suspects
from the surveillance tape recorded
during Linda Franklin's shooting were
eliminated sleep deprived and frustrated
the investigators knew that to catch the
sniper they'd have to work even harder
you just couldn't walk away from the
case I didn't want to go off shift you
know your boss has had to send you home
get your sleep you're gonna have to come
back tomorrow it's a new day and you'd
go home and on your way home there was
another shooting incident just around
the corner before this case Barney full
sight had been planning to retire from
the police force but those plans were
now on hold it would have been very
difficult for me to walk out the door
and turn this over to somebody else then
a lead came from an unexpected place
takoma in the state of Washington on the
other side of the country everyone to
call don't assume we have your
information do not assume that the
information you have is no good as
Robert Holmes watch the coverage of the
DC sniper shootings he had an alarming
revelation he somehow has his gut
feeling that his friend John Muhammad is
behind this
John Muhammad had been his buddy in the
army he owned a long-range rifle just
like the one shown in the news reports
and here was the clincher John had an
estranged wife who had taken custody of
their children
and moved to the Washington DC area so
he calls the tip line and his tip gets
completely lost
ironically the sniper wanted to talk to
the task force too but he also had
trouble getting through reported come on
don't say anything
where the people are causing the killing
in here look on the terrified yes sir
call me God sir any good freshmen at
Montgomery County police hotline we're
not investigating there Carla you like
to no further further complicating the
situation other callers were also taking
credit for the crimes the real sniper
got lost in the shuffle they got
desperate for law enforcement to to
accept that they were the killers when
they called so they brought up a
shooting in Montgomery Alabama and asked
us to look into that shooting was a you
got to believe me I'm the sniper and
here's how you can tell on the sniper I
immediately called my cami Alabama and I
asked if anyone handle the situation at
an ABC store and he said he said yes we
had a robbery homicide the liquor store
shooting was unsolved and the gun used
in the crime was not a Bushmaster the DC
sniper didn't rob his victims they
didn't seem to be a connection on
October the 19th Jeff and Stephanie
hopper were driving to their home in
Florida when they pulled off the
interstate highway some 150 kilometers
south of Washington to fill up their car
and have dinner they thought they were
out of the danger zone they were walking
out of the Ponderosa restaurant together
after a nice dinner and they were
holding hands they heard a gun report it
took a moment before Jeff realized he
had been shot in the abdomen
his wife struggled to unlock her cell
phone to call for help
it took five operations over 18 days to
save Jeff's life
in the woods near the restaurant an ATF
dog found a bullet casing and a note
tacked to a tree the note was tucked
inside a ziploc bag but the sniper left
vital evidence there was DNA on the
ziploc bag that the note was contained
in it's actually one of the ways in
which law enforcement can pick up DNA is
with a zip lock mechanism that that
draws the DNA from the fingers as you as
you do that the DNA however didn't match
anything in the FBI's national database
however the note was intriguing for you
mr. police call me guard and then it
went on to make demands very specific
demands of what was expected of law
enforcement to make the killings end the
sniper wanted ten million dollars
deposited in a bank account once I heard
that they were looking for really an
exorbitant amount of money I really felt
very confident that we were going to get
them the sniper also wrote that at 6:00
a.m. he would call the restaurant where
Jeffrey hopper had been shot we missed
the time cutoff because of the DNA
analysis so chief moose went out with a
very specific communication and a press
conference following the discovery of
what was on the note to the person who
left us a message at the Ponderosa last
night we do want to talk to you call us
at the number you provided thank you in
the morning of October the 21st the call
came finally the police and the sniper
were in direct contact don't say
anything just
the voice on the phone told the police
to follow the demands from the note or
more people will be killed there were to
tell the press that the sniper had been
caught like a duck in a noose it ended
with a chilling warning PS your children
are not safe
the call was tracked to a petrol station
33 minutes later two men were arrested
one was driving a white panel truck but
these men were simply to illegal
immigrants near the phone at the wrong
time the taskforce regrouped and focused
on the strange wording in the snipers
last message you caught the sniper like
a duck in the noose we didn't know what
that meant when we first read it we we
all looked at each other cross-eyed and
didn't know what what those words meant
the snipers note mentioned the Alabama
shooting once again a second call to
Montgomery revealed more information a
magazine had been dropped at the crime
scene it had a fingerprint on it but
local officials said they had not
processed the print the magazine was
immediately flown to Washington and lo
and behold the fingerprint matches the
boy Malvo Lee Boyd Malvo was a 17 year
old from Jamaica he had been
fingerprinted by immigration officials
in Bellingham Washington so that gave us
basically an individual in a face to a
fingerprint police were convinced that
the teenager had an accomplice if we
could just have 24 hours with this
information before the media gets a hold
of it that we could catch them but if
this were to leak they would be in the
wind and probably not surface for a very
long time
just as police felt they were hot on
their trail the snipers struck again
they came back and they hit us once
again in a heart of Montgomery County on
October 22nd Conrad Johnson a bus driver
was the next victim he was shot and
killed as he was at the front steps of
his bus ready to do his route at the
scene a new message had been tacked to a
tree your incompetence has cost you
another life
the police were determined to turn this
incompetence into an arrest they had a
fingerprint a photograph and a name Lee
Boyd Malvo he was born in Jamaica an
immigration report revealed a custody
battle between his mother and a man
named John Muhammad Muhammad had helped
Malvo and his mother into the United
States illegally from the Caribbean
John Muhammad and Lee Malvo became
friends often passing themselves off as
father and son
in Tacoma FBI agents played the tapes of
the sniper for Muhammad's friend Robert
Holmes it was a longtime friend of John
Mohammed's from the army they confided
in each other
Robert had called the tipline five days
earlier but failed to get through he
recognized the voice as Lee Malvo a kid
who hung out with Muhammad he also gave
the agents a possible motive
he knew that John Muhammad was
devastated when he lost his children to
Mildred Mildred was John Mohamed's
ex-wife when Muhammad had threatened to
kill her she moved to the Washington DC
area with their children
Robert Holmes led the agents to a tree
stump in his backyard but Malvo and
Muhammad had used for target practice
back in Maryland the task force was
closing in on their suspects we ended up
getting the tag number which was a new
jersey plate description of the vehicle
listed to mr. Mohammed we knew we were
looking for a blue Chevy Caprice with
New Jersey tags and we realized we were
looking for at least two or more
individuals we're keeping our fingers
crossed that this is the right thing
Whitney Donahue repaired industrial
refrigerators for a living he had been
working late on October the 24th in
Virginia at about 11:30 I decided to go
home I got my van started on the route
66 home was a couple of long dark hours
away to stay awake he turned on the
radio we are looking for a blue Chevy
Caprice with New Jersey tags and DA
Whitney had owned the Chevy Caprice
so he knew exactly what he was looking
for I started scanning the cars as I
went in towards the Beltway and I got on
route 70 and decided to stop at the rest
area on South Mountain and as I turned
in
I seen the Caprice it was dark blue and
then as I came on in I could see the
front tag and it was what I'd written
down and I pulled in right directly
across in front of them picked up my
cell phone and called 911 was about to
tighten around the necks of what we're
now a pair of sitting ducks
through good police work some lucky
breaks and a tip from an observant
member of the public the task force
hunting the DC sniper were about to make
the arrest this would end a 21 day reign
of terror tactical teams prepared for a
shootout these are the same individuals
who trained together and work together
for the prior two and a half to three
weeks they planned the takedown they got
in the wood line and they execute
I remember looking down at Malvo and
seeing beads of sweat on his forehead
and this is October it was cool he
didn't say a word and I looked down
walked over to John Muhammad and I saw
his face he was angry it was a quick
operation and everybody knew we had them
and everybody was relieved and everybody
was glad it was over I was extremely
tired both physically and
psychologically but his exhausted as he
was there was one thing Bonnie Forsyth
had to do
I stopped actually by the school that
were my wife Marsha works called her out
of her classroom and put my arms around
her I said we gotta I said you can't
tell anybody right now cuz it hadn't
been released but we got him
we are gathered to share some
information with regards to a sniper
situation that has been occurring in the
Washington Metropolitan Area at
approximately 1:00 o'clock a.m. today a
motorist called 911 a 1990 Chevy Caprice
and I was home at the time watching the
news and my kids were there and they
were you know jumping up and down does
this mean we're gonna have recess again
we can lease a tit there's some family
that's gonna be together tonight because
we got it done for several days Lee Boyd
Malvo remains silent
but finally detective June Boyle got him
to talk he was hungry he wanted a veggie
burger and that started the process we
sent out for a veggie burger - over him
in fact and some water once he started
eating and talking everything just
flowed pretty well Malvo told her that
he would fast before killing because it
improved his aim he just was bragging
about how they had planned to do five
killings in one day he said because he
knew the police couldn't handle it he
gave details of each killing in the
Franklin shooting he said he aimed at Ed
Franklin first and Linda Franklin moved
to the back of the car he said it only
took him two seconds he locked on to her
in Chartres he pointed to his head
laughed about it said it was a great
shot Malvo began to open up slowly
revealing information about his
relationship with John Allen Muhammad he
referred to mohammed as sometimes his
best friend sometimes his father
but they were very tight everything they
did they did together
he and John Muhammad trained shooting
out in the state of Washington and he
talked about that they would shoot and
said we taught each other everything
today many investigators believe the
killing spree was a twisted plot by John
Muhammad to kill his ex-wife and get his
children back I think it's very
plausible that he intended to kill her
and make her one of the random victims
John Muhammad had hatred he was involved
I think when they finally put it all
together at the end it was between 24
and 26 shootings throughout this nation
that were involved by both of these
individuals
he taught hatred to Lee Boyd Malvo in
2004 John Allen Muhammad was sentenced
to death by a Virginia Court he is
appealing that verdict 17 year old Lee
Boyd Malvo received a life sentence two
years later a Maryland Court sentence
each of them to six consecutive life
terms